Advertisement

Popularity Contest Trump Is Offering Populism, Minus the Free Candy Image Consider an alternate history in which the Trump administration absorbed and embraced the lessons of right-wing populists from abroad. Credit Zach Meyer

The thing about populism is it usually involves doing things that are popular.

This is something that European nationalists and Latin American strongmen have long known. When they come to power, they aim to deliver concrete benefits to their supporters, even at the cost of their nations’ long-term fiscal health.

President Trump has delivered on some of the things he promised supporters on the campaign trail: He has appointed a conservative Supreme Court justice; begun more aggressive enforcement of immigration laws; and directed his appointees to slash regulations on fossil fuel and other industries. But in terms of spending, Mr. Trump has embraced the austere preferences of congressional Republicans, even when that approach has contradicted his campaign promises.

To see the tension, consider an alternate history of the Trump administration: one in which the president embraced the lessons of right-wing populists from abroad.

It’s Jan. 21, and Mr. Trump is newly sworn in. Shrugging off the snark from liberals on Twitter about the size of his inauguration crowds, he directs his staff to go to work on the Make America Great Again Act of 2017.

They dust off the policy white paper that the campaign staff issued months earlier, and spend their time on Capitol Hill trying to cobble together a coalition to pass a bill aimed at helping the people who put Mr. Trump in the White House.

The bill has lots of money to fight the opioid epidemic and to invest in communities left behind by the modern economy. There is money to prop up troubled health insurance markets, so that Mr. Trump can say he has replaced Obamacare with something better. There are a trillion dollars for public infrastructure — not some complex tax credit that favors revenue-generating projects in affluent areas, but the brute force of government dollars to build roads and bridges in every corner of the nation.

Each project, of course, will have a big sign crediting the Make America Great Again Act with a big photo of Mr. Trump flashing a thumbs up.

To help keep conservatives and business interests on board with all that spending, the bill loosens environmental laws and bank regulations, among other policy goodies that make C.E.O.s’ hearts flutter. But it wouldn’t achieve a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate unless packaged with those aforementioned goodies that appeal to Democrats. Maybe it could increase the minimum wage, but also include a tax credit for companies that hire American workers to offset the cost to businesses.

The government would pay for it all with higher deficits. Free candy for everyone! The cost — in the form of higher interest rates and perhaps inflation — would come later. It’s the kind of bill that anti-spending conservatives would complain about, and die-hard anti-Trump liberals would resist. Cobbling together a coalition to pass it may not be easy, but a savvy deal maker could plausibly attract enough bipartisan support to make it law — and in the process maybe build trust for further deal making down the road.

My MAGA Act is hypothetical, but in the weeks after the election, the idea that Mr. Trump would emulate European and Latin American populists — who are often staunch defenders of social welfare programs and enthusiasts of showy public works projects — seemed plausible.

Mr. Trump has often been compared to the right-wing Latin American populists who, like him, have used machismo, opposition to elites and personal grandiosity (“I alone can fix it,” as Mr. Trump said) to win elections. His nationalist, anti-immigration “America First” message also resembles that of European nationalists.

Juan Perón, the president of Argentina from the mid-1940s to the mid-1950s and again briefly in the 1970s, is among the most famous of the Latin American populists and one whose personality has been compared to Mr. Trump’s. But while Perón had an authoritarian approach, his policies included a universal public pension and universal access to health care. He spent lavishly on public works projects.

Image Juan Perón, the Argentine president from 1946 to 1955, knew how to be popular. Credit El Dia De La Plata/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

More recently, Rafael Correa, the president of Ecuador from 2007 until last month, who came to office on an anti-elite wave and shared with Mr. Trump a predilection for tweeting insults at his enemies, spent public funds abundantly on schools, poverty, health clinics and highways.

Right-wing parties in Europe often exhibit antagonism to immigration, but position themselves as defenders of public spending domestically. The National Front in France, for example, which recently lost the presidential election, was calling for lowering the retirement age and increasing welfare benefits to go along with its message opposing immigration and the European Union.

The “let them have candy” approach isn’t necessarily sound policy. In a 1991 economics paper, Rudiger Dornbusch of M.I.T. and Sebastian Edwards of U.C.L.A. showed how the populist movements of Latin America had often generated a disastrous boom-bust cycle.

“Again and again, and in country after country, policy makers have embraced economic programs that rely heavily on the use of expansive fiscal and credit policies and overvalued currency to accelerate growth and redistribute income,” wrote Mr. Dornbusch and Mr. Edwards in “The Macroeconomics of Populism in Latin America.” “After a short period of economic growth and recovery, bottlenecks develop provoking unsustainable macroeconomic pressures that, at the end, result in the plummeting of real wages and severe balance of payment difficulties. The final outcome of these experiments has generally been galloping inflation, crisis and the collapse of the economic system.”

Based on the early policy moves of the Trump administration, spending too much on goodies for his working-class supporters isn’t something Americans need to fear. He has chosen a very different path — even when following through would be more consistent with his campaign promises.

During the campaign, Mr. Trump promised not to cut Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid. As president, his budget would cut the Social Security disability insurance program and Medicaid.

His first major legislative effort was a health care bill that would cause 23 million people to lose coverage, according to the Congressional Budget Office’s estimate, while cutting taxes for the affluent. It would hit older Americans, who disproportionately voted for Mr. Trump, particularly hard in the form of higher health insurance costs. The bill, which is being revised by the Senate, is deeply unpopular, according to public opinion polls.

Despite the president’s talk of a bold $1 trillion infrastructure plan, there is not yet an actual legislative proposal, and the approach the administration has described relies heavily on tax credits to encourage private investment. That tends to limit the scope of any projects to those that can generate revenue to pay off investors.

On taxes there is also no legislative proposal yet, and the bullet points the administration has released imply much bigger advantages for corporations and the highest earners than for middle-class Americans.

On opioid addiction and other problems facing some of the troubled communities that heavily favored Mr. Trump at the voting booth, the most visible thing the administration has done is appoint a task force. His budget would slash regional development funds, through the Appalachian Regional Commission and the Delta Regional Authority, for example, both of which benefit areas that voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Trump.

On top of it all, Mr. Trump has set a political tone that makes it harder to change course and find bipartisan support for something like the MAGA Act later. Instead of putting Democrats in a jam by proposing something broadly popular, the president has made it easy for them to be united in opposition.

Essentially, for all of Mr. Trump’s populist rhetoric, he has outsourced his domestic policy agenda to the austere, spending-averse congressional Republicans.

It’s hard to know how much of this reflects the president’s actual policy preferences versus the ideology of the people he has surrounded himself with, and how much of it is simply the path of least resistance. Letting House Speaker Paul Ryan and the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, set the domestic policy agenda is easier than doing it yourself.

But given the choices the Trump administration has made, the president’s sub-40-percent public approval ratings are understandable. It may be a tautology to say that doing popular things will make a politician more popular, but it’s one the president may just want to remember.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page BU 2 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Offers Populism, Minus the Free Candy





Photo

Last week President Trump again called to revitalize the United States military, most notably with a 10 percent increase in the defense budget. Such proposals make for a snappy sound bite and enable the president to bask in the reflected glow of the armed forces, which happen to be more popular than he is. Yet in the absence of a coherent national strategy, arbitrary increases in the defense budget will do little to make America safer, and could make the world more dangerous.

There is no doubt that the United States faces serious security threats. The Defense Department is dealing with genuine readiness and modernization challenges, and reasonable people can disagree about whether targeted budget increases are a necessary remedy. Some experts see rising threats from North Korea and Russia and have called for augmenting the United States’ ground warfare capabilities after long campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq. Others call for increasing funding for the Navy, which is slated to shoulder the cost of a new ballistic missile submarine — the backbone of the nation’s future nuclear force — even though this effort may squeeze out the service’s traditional shipbuilding.

Ideally, a coherent defense budget process would reflect these types of debates, prioritizing some threats over others and determining how best to combat them. In the real world, the defense budget is complex, politicized and hard to wrangle even when incoming administrations attempt to link their budgets to a vision. But they usually try.

For example, President John F. Kennedy’s defense secretary, Robert McNamara, proposed reducing funding for the Air Force because Kennedy had promised to move away from President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s emphasis on the service’s nuclear capabilities. Similarly, President George W. Bush’s first defense secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, focused his early efforts to reshape the budget on defense “transformation” to reduce each service’s legacy force structure while investing in information, stealth and precision technology. Neither president got exactly what he wanted, but each made a vigorous effort to link proposed changes to strategic priorities.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

President Trump’s call for an increase in military spending doesn’t have even the veneer of this sort of guidance. Instead, the administration has delivered a bundle of simplistic national security slogans rife with contradictions and gaps.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The Islamic State is said to be a top priority, for example, but the administration has gone out of its way to needle Iran, which might otherwise be America’s de facto ally in that fight. The administration professes worry about North Korea’s threatening behavior, but instead of solidifying United States leadership in Asia and strengthening the relationship with China, the administration has axed participation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership and been erratic in its dealings with Beijing. In Europe, the administration’s surrogates claim the United States is committed to NATO, but the president’s disturbing affinity for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and thinly veiled disdain for longstanding allies have plunged the trans-Atlantic relationship into crisis.The film travels with Ms. Varda and JR, as they drive his photo-booth truck to hamlets, factories and ports in France; take giant images of residents and laborers; and paste them onto buildings, water tanks and any other surface they can beautify — bringing those so often unseen to the fore.

It is, however, the conversations, tender and teasing, between Ms. Varda, who is losing her vision, and JR, who hides behind dark glasses, as they ponder their art, their ages, goats and cats, long-ago loves and lost friends, that will have viewers wiping their eyes. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

Photo

Art: Guggenheim’s ‘China After 1989’

Through Jan. 7; guggenheim.org.

In 1987, the Chinese artist Huang Yong Ping ran copies of two art history textbooks through a washing machine, later displaying the resulting pulp as “The History of Chinese Painting and A Concise History of Modern Painting Washed in a Washing Machine for Two Minutes.”

It’s an apt metaphor for the cultural and ideological ferment between the Tiananmen Square Massacre in 1989 and the Beijing Olympics in 2008, at least as viewed from abroad. This time period is the focus of a new exhibition at the Guggenheim Museum that starts Friday Oct. 6, “Art and China after 1989: Theater of the World.”

The ambitious show features dozens of contemporary Chinese artists, including conceptualists like Mr. Huang and painters like Liu Xiaodong. (After an outcry by animal-rights supporters, though, the museum announced it would withdraw three works, including one of Mr. Huang’s, a hothouse box of insects and lizards.) The exhibition will nevertheless offer an indispensable road map to a scene claiming more and more attention. WILL HEINRICH

TV: ‘The Gifted’ on Fox

Oct. 2 at 9 p.m.; fox.com.

Marvel strikes again with “The Gifted,” a special effects-laden Fox series from the “X-Men” universe — teleportation portals! invisible barriers! — and one of fall’s most anticipated entries. It premieres Monday, Oct. 2.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Set in an Atlanta suburb, the show follows Reed Strucker (Stephen Moyer), a prosecutor for a federal task force intent on keeping America safe by putting away mutants. But when a bout of bullying at a high school dance forces his teenage son and daughter, Andy (Percy Hynes White) and Lauren (Natalie Alyn Lind), to unleash startling powers of their own, Reed has a gut wrenching realization that his children are exactly the type of supposedly dangerous people he has been hunting.

And when some nefarious government agents appear on the Strucker doorstep with the intent of whisking Andy and Lauren away, Reed and his wife, Caitlin (Amy Acker), swoop their offspring to safety with the help of a mutant underground, including Eclipse (Sean Teale), Blink (Jamie Chung), Polaris (Emma Dumont) and Thunderbird (Blair Redford). KATHRYN SHATTUCK

Photo

Theater: Dave Malloy’s ‘Ghost Quartet’

Oct. 5-31; nytw.org.

For all the rapturous attention Dave Malloy’s “Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812” received last season on Broadway — the ecstatic reviews, the dozen Tony nominations — there was an element of surprise to its success, as if a creature native to one habitat had migrated to flourish in another. The secret of Mr. Malloy, one of downtown theater’s most treasured composers, was definitely out.

If, for audiences, there is an upside to that show’s recent closure, it may be his return to a more intimate space with “Ghost Quartet,” a spectral song cycle that will kick off New York Theater Workshop’s inaugural Next Door at NYTW series on Thursday, Oct. 5.

The show features Mr. Malloy, the cellist Brent Arnold and fellow “Great Comet” veterans Brittain Ashford and Gelsey Bell in a collision of musical genres that exudes an infectious conviviality, even as it raises the dead. For performers and spectators alike, the whiskey will flow. LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES

Dance: Bill T. Jones’s ‘A Letter to My Nephew’

Oct. 3-7, bam.org.

In his recent “Analogy Trilogy,” Bill T. Jones used dance as a mode of biographical storytelling, each work in the series tracing the contours of a life.

Part two, “Analogy/Lance: Pretty aka the Escape Artist,” dealt with his nephew, Lance T. Briggs, whose young adulthood as a dancer, model and male escort in the late ’80s and early ’90s found him battling addiction and illness. Drawing on correspondence between Mr. Briggs and his uncle, the work illuminated a gentler struggle, too, of family members trying to grow closer.

In “A Letter to My Nephew,” beginning its run at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Tuesday, Oct. 3, the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Company will further unpack that relationship, while exploring connections between personal conflicts and larger sociopolitical ones. With a score by Nick Hallett and video projections by Janet Wong, “Letter” folds in references to wherever it’s performed, in this case New York City. SIOBHAN BURKE

Photo

Classical: Ashley Fure’s ‘The Force of Things’

Oct. 6-8, peakperfs.org.

Described as an “opera for objects,” the composer Ashley Fure’s “The Force of Things” will have its American debut on Friday, Oct. 6, at Montclair State University, as part of its Peak Performances season, dedicated to women innovators this year.

Ms. Fure is deeply attuned to the relationship between sound and space, and has crafted a powerfully unsentimental language steeped in the European avant-garde. This latest work — an immersive installation created in collaboration with architect Adam Fure, the composer’s brother — takes ecological anxiety as its subject.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The audience will be encircled by speakers broadcasting sounds below the range of human hearing, manipulated by the musicians of the International Contemporary Ensemble, as singers mutter incomprehensible warnings. In the context of recent natural disasters, the opera’s enigmatic but forceful message should be a potent match for the subtle severity of Fure’s music. WILLIAM ROBINUnderlining the disaffection with the union, protesters took to the streets on Saturday afternoon, shutting down Rome neighborhoods and railing against European technocrats, capitalism and shadowy economic powers.

Met by a large police presence, they marched under a number of banners, including those of trade unions and left-wing parties. Smoke bombs went off, and tensions rose between protesters and officers, but the march did not degenerate into rioting. Tight security measures were put into place days before.

“Europe was a dream that has turned into a nightmare,” said Mario De Giorgi, 50. “We are Italians who want more rights and a better life, what we had before the euro.”

That single currency, the bloc’s flagship economic project, is viewed by many as unfairly benefiting countries like Germany while imposing painful austerity on others like Greece.

“The euro is a killer currency; it has destroyed the world,” said Chiriac Tiberiu, who said he was part of the Romanian branch of the Five Star Movement, an anti-establishment party. “Europe has to disappear and be replaced with something that guarantees real freedom,” he said.

There also is rising dissatisfaction with Europe’s claims to moral leadership on human rights since the introduction of tougher policies to limit the entry of refugees and migrants fleeing war-torn and poverty-stricken countries in the Middle East and Africa.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But at other marches and sit-ins, many celebrated the treaty. The March for Europe held a rally close to the Roman palazzo where the signing took place.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Europe gave us 60 years of peace, so I felt I had to give something back,” said Mauro Armadi, 23, who had traveled to Rome from Taranto, in Puglia, to show his support for the treaty.

Tobias Lundquist, 26, who had traveled to Rome from Sandviken, Sweden, said, “With the European Union, we cast off our dark history and came together to solve problems at a table, not a battlefield.”

Mr. Tusk encouraged the demonstrators filling the streets of European capitals this weekend to connect with the bloc’s history to understand how far the Continent had come.

Since the signing of the treaty, which created important precursor institutions to the European Union, the bloc has more than quadrupled in size. It is the largest trading bloc in the world and the biggest donor of development and humanitarian aid; it has absorbed formerly Communist countries in Eastern Europe and has created a giant single market with more than 500 million consumers.

It has also knocked down barriers to freedom to travel and work in neighboring states, creating lifelong bonds across frontiers that were formerly guarded. Above all, the bloc’s founding idea of making war between nations with mutual self-interest unthinkable has held.

Yet the project is reeling from recent crises that helped push the British to vote to leave the bloc in a referendum last June. Britain’s rejection prompted concerns that populist leaders opposed to the European project could be on the cusp of taking power in other countries.

That threat was beaten back this month in the Netherlands, where the center-right party of Prime Minister Mark Rutte won more votes than Geert Wilders, who opposes the European Union.

Still, uncertainty remains over the outcome of the French presidential election in April, with a second round in May, and Germany’s elections in September.

But Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, the bloc’s executive body, said, “Let us not lose perspective.” As daunting as the challenges may feel today, he said, they were “in no way comparable to those faced by our founding fathers.” Europe, he said, had already “managed to achieve almost eternal peace.”Photo

THE FIRST LOVE STORY

Adam, Eve, and Us

By Bruce Feiler

306 pp. Penguin Press. $28

Romantic love is a myth. You don’t choose a partner because you love him. You love that partner because you chose him. Which explains the plague of our time. Too many choices, too many channels, too many potential hookups — it’s made it just about impossible to choose, and if it’s just about impossible to choose, it’s just about impossible to love, and if it’s just about impossible to love, then, according to “The First Love Story: Adam, Eve, and Us,” by Bruce Feiler, it’s just about impossible to be fully human. Why were Adam and Eve able to love each other so fiercely? Because those lucky bastards had no choice. Feiler paraphrases Golde’s line from “Fiddler on the Roof” — “For 25 years I’ve lived with him, fought with him, starved with him. For 25 years my bed is his. If that’s not love, what is?”

It’s this question (“If that’s not love, what is?”) that Feiler brilliantly explores. The equality (or inequality) of the sexes, the importance of connection, the nature of love, good and evil, the first people in throes of the first passion, Eden, the snake, the temptation, sin and the Fall, animal skins in exile, Cain and Abel, murder — Feiler examines each particular and how these particulars are newly understood in each generation. In short, you get the Adam and Eve you deserve.

He starts with the Garden. What was it like? Was it walled and gated, or did the hedgerows form a barrier against the riffraff? Did it even exist? Was it real? It sounds silly now that the entire globe’s been mapped, but smart people were convinced of its actuality for thousands of years. They were always talking about it, looking for it, trying to find their way back to it. Genesis locates it at the headwaters of four rivers; two have been lost (Pishon, Gihon), but two are still known (Tigris, Euphrates). This would put the Garden in Mesopotamia, the heart of modern Iraq. So that’s where Feiler starts, but finding no remnant in that war-torn country — “I was wearing Kejo Level III Rapid Response body armor” — he moves on, concluding that Eden was probably a state of mind. It’s “not so much an actual place,” he explains. “It’s a place we must create for ourselves, especially when it seems most challenging to do so.”

He turns his search toward the story of the story itself, the idea and the artists who picked it up and remade it and sent it through the ages: Augustine; Milton; Darwin; Mary Shelley, whose “Frankenstein” terrifies partly because it’s the old story without God; Elizabeth Cady Stanton; Mae West; and Hemingway, who all through his life “referred to his mother as ‘that bitch.’” It’s the best sort of exegesis, with Feiler finding Adam and Eves all over the modern world. (If it’s not happening now, it has no meaning.) Mae West is Eve, for example, pushing mankind toward greater freedom. The Columbine killer Dylan Klebold is Cain, author of the first murder, forced to live as “a fugitive and a vagabond.” His mother’s decision to write a memoir “inadvertently created a remarkable midrash on one of the least understood stories of the Bible,” Feiler writes, a midrash being a kind of commentary on a story in the ancient Scriptures.What makes someone American? How do you define American identity? When do you feel most American? Or least? Nine American citizens describe their struggle to belong in a nation that both embraces and rejects them. Watch a video selected at random or choose a name. Then share your own storiesBut that’s also part of their appeal. They’re records of how the language changes, and in the old days, before the Shorter Oxford got into the sundering business, they indicated a sort of halfway point, a way station in the progress of a new usage. Two terms get linked together — “tiddly-wink,” let’s say, or “cell-phone” — and then over time that little hitch is eroded, worn away by familiarity. In a few years, for example, people will be amused to discover that email used to be e-mail.

The greatest hyphenator ever was Shakespeare (or Shak-speare in some contemporary spellings) because he was so busy adding new words, many of them compounds, to English: “sea-change,” “leap-frog,” “bare-faced,” “fancy-free.” Milton also hyphenated a lot (“dew-drops,” “man-slaughter,” “eye-sight”) and so did Donne, who loved compounds like “death-bed” and “passing-bell,” where the hyphen carries almost metaphorical weight, a reminder of what Eliot called his singular talent for yoking unlike ideas.

At the other end of the spectrum is E. E. Cummings, who turned his back on not just the hyphen but punctuation in general, and in this respect was way ahead of his time. Cummings wrote back in the age of real type, but looked forward to what might be called the sanserification of print: the way our computer versions of type are dropping all the little vestiges of metal fonts — the serifs, or pleasing little curves and points jutting out from a letter in traditional fonts, and, for that matter, the hyphen, the comma, the quotation mark. Our print, once a replica of hand-lettering, now aspires to the condition of the computer screen and the text message.

Even Mr. Stevenson puts in a good word for the hyphen especially beloved by grammarians and so vexing to civilians, the one that turns a noun phrase into a compound adjective. A slippery-eel salesman, for example, sells slippery eels, while a slippery eel salesman takes your money and slinks away.

Textbooks used to be full of examples like these (English-language lessons and English language lessons; an odd-looking glass and an odd looking glass) but except in places like The New Yorker, which punctiliously hyphenates all such phrases, ambiguous or not, this useful, elegant hyphen has become a nicety, resorted to only in cases of extreme confusion and sometimes not even then. Most of the time we’re not troubled, either because we’re good at figuring things out (a high school student is most likely someone attending secondary school rather than a pupil puffing a joint) or because we no longer pay much attention to punctuation to begin with.

In many cases the hyphen is probably an affectation — like wearing spats, say. And if Mr. Stevenson is right about the general confusion over hyphen usage, a lot of us were putting on our spats improperly. We wore them with Bermuda shorts, so to speak. But they did look pretty good sometimes — spiffy and genteel — and gave our prose an extra strut. We may feel a little under-dressed — underdressed, rather — without them.There was one other person in the waiting area, a lean and muscular man in his 40s who was also a cryo virgin but who seemed much less nervous than either one of us.

We were led into a small locker room, where we took off all our clothes except for underwear and put on disposable bandeau-style bras — no underwires allowed in the cryo chamber because the metal can freeze and burn the skin — white cotton athletic socks, white cotton gloves an archivist might wear, a white robe, disposable surgical masks to protect our mouths and noses, ear warmers, black rubber sandals and giant wool mittens.

A sprightly employee named Yvonne said we could burn 500 to 800 calories and asked what we wanted to listen to. I wondered if our soundtrack should include a song that might be in an inspirational training montage in a movie, like “Eye of the Tiger.” In the end, we settled on Rihanna.

The cryotherapy chamber is a small room that’s cooled to minus 230 Fahrenheit. Really, it looked like a walk-in freezer with a large window through which I could see only what looked like steam wafting in the air. Karyn and I took off our robes and stepped into a cold antechamber. We counted to five, then I opened the door to the cryotherapy room.

I didn’t think it was that bad — about as cold as walking my dog on the coldest, windiest winter night. Not pleasant but not painful or capable of inducing panic. (And just in case we did freak out, Yvonne had pointed out that the door didn’t lock and we were free to leave at any time.)

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

It was too cold for sudden movements, so we slowly jiggled and danced in place to keep warm. Yvonne was barely visible on the other side of the window calling out how much time had elapsed and shouting: “You’re doing great! You got this!”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After about a minute, the cold seemed to move into my body. Chatting to pass the time was not an option. Moving around was difficult. We started moaning in pain as Yvonne counted off the last 30 seconds.

Karyn and I ran outside, where we put our robes back on and stood on vibrating plates for a few minutes, which was supposed to help our now-red bodies warm up. Then the staff brought us hot tea, and we sat down.

That’s when we both started feeling strangely hyper and euphoric. “I feel like I had three espressos and could run six miles,” I said.

Karyn said, “I’m going to tell the sober people in my life to try this.” We babbled about clothes and movies. A regular client emerged from the chamber and onto the vibrating plates. “I would do this every day if I could,” he said.

Maybe I would. The strain in my muscle wasn’t completely gone, but it felt noticeably better all day. Supposedly you sleep well the night after, but neither of us did. I was still so wired that I spent half the night listening to Tina Brown read “The Vanity Fair Diaries” audiobook and thinking about how Ms. Brown managed to get so much done every day. Imagine if I could do cryotherapy every morning? I would be insufferable and broke but, maybe, unstoppable.GORHAM, N.H. — The moment you step out into the frozen air on the way up Mount Washington — one of the most frigid spots in the lower 48 — the icy wind steals your breath and freezes your eyelashes. You can’t blink. The cold stabs your face and numbs your earlobes to rubber.

“It’s an icy hell,” said Amy Loughlin, 50, who was visiting from Austin, Tex., and scaling the mountain, the highest in the Northeast, in the back of a SnowCoach — a van retrofitted with tanklike treads to handle the blowing snow and treacherous roads.

With much of the Northeast and Midwest feeling like a block of ice, the temperature here in the high peaks of New Hampshire’s White Mountains was forecast to drop to 40 degrees below zero overnight Friday. The wind chill could make the air feel as cold as 100 below zero. That is not a typo. Negative. 100.

“We should end up being the coldest location tonight in the lower 48,” said Mike Carmon, senior meteorologist at the Mount Washington Observatory, who was one of a handful of scientists and others huddled at the top of one of the most dangerous and forbidding places in the country. “We basically just start saying it’s stupid cold outside.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The temperature on Mount Washington had plunged to 26 below on Friday afternoon — 70 degrees below with wind chill factored in. The wind had gusted up to 122 miles per hour. Only specially outfitted vehicles are allowed on the road up the mountain at this time of year, and on Friday, snowdrifts and ferocious winds blocked even the SnowCoach from going farther.But like its predecessors, the new service is targeted at business travelers. “These were unique opportunities,” Mr. Mann said, “to do something that was much more generous than you would typically get.”

Eastern Air Lines was the first to operate air shuttles, beginning in 1961, with service every other hour from La Guardia to Washington and Boston. Over the next four decades or so, shuttle services increased in frequency and, crucially, offered unlimited capacity on every departure.

If, for example, 100 people could fit on the plane at the gate in New York for the 8 a.m. departure to Boston but 101 passengers showed up, a second plane would be rolled out. “It’s a very expensive proposition,” Mr. Mann said, because airlines had to have planes and crews on standby. (Frequently, though, those standby aircraft never left the ground.)

Photo

Airlines, however, still try to distinguish their shuttle flights to appeal to business travelers. “The word ‘shuttle’ has a really distinct meaning to our most frequent business travelers,” said Vasu Raja, the vice president for network and schedule planning at American Airlines.

American’s shuttles to Boston and Washington still follow a more consistent schedule than flights on other routes and tend to leave from the same gate. Passengers can also check in for the flights closer to departure time. Because of that consistency, Mr. Raja said, travelers “can be on autopilot” while going through the airport.

He said the company had decided to expand its shuttle in response to customer demand. Chicago is a particularly strong market for business travel, he said, and the airline’s frequent fliers in New York have long wanted the shuttle to fly there.

Delta Air Lines is the only other airline that offers shuttle service. Like American, it operates out of La Guardia with flights to Boston, Washington and Chicago.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Delta shuttle caters to business travelers with similar in-flight amenities and check-in rules, and has dedicated security lanes at La Guardia. The schedule is aimed at accommodating travelers who want to fly round-trip in one day.

“Those shuttle markets are designed for a customer to leave in the morning and come back in the afternoon or evening,” said Henry Kuykendall, Delta’s senior vice president for Northeast airport operations. “Other markets you have to overnight.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

When Eastern Air Lines sold its shuttle routes to Donald J. Trump in 1989, the real estate mogul doubled down on the idea of luxury service, installing faux marble counters in the lavatories and chrome-plated seatbelt buckles embossed with the airline’s logo on the rebranded planes. Flight attendants wore faux pearls and served a cold meal and sometimes as many as two rounds of drinks on the 40-minute flights to Washington.

The company even had a concierge service during the week. Passengers could drop off their dry cleaning before departing in the morning and have it waiting for them when they returned in the evening. The concierge would even arrange a dinner reservation.

The Trump Shuttle was sold a few years later to USAir Group, which operated it as a separate entity for five years before folding it into US Airways. The shuttle moved to American Airlines when the two carriers merged in 2013. Delta acquired its early shuttle routes to Boston and Washington from Pan Am in 1991.

Photo

While flying is the fastest way to get to Chicago from the East Coast, shuttle flights face stiffer competition from Amtrak in the Boston-New York-Washington corridor. Frequent travelers tend to gravitate to one mode of transportation over another, and fans of the air shuttle are more than happy to make a case for their preferred way to travel.

“I definitely take the shuttle more than I take the train,” said Justin Nelson, a co-founder and the president of the National L.G.B.T. Chamber of Commerce. “I do both, but I definitely prefer the shuttle.” He lives and works in Washington, but has to travel to New York about twice a month and, he said, most often takes the American shuttle.

“I’m an American Airlines frequent flier, and part of that is just loyalty and doing good by companies that are doing good by you,” Mr. Nelson said. “I have found that the airlines fight hard for your business. They want to provide a service, and they’re by no means perfect, but they’re fighting for you as a customer.”

He said he found the service on Amtrak to be more impersonal. He also likes that he can accrue frequent flier miles on the shuttle that apply to the airline’s whole network. In addition, he said, American and Delta both support Mr. Nelson’s organization.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Eric Schwartz, the president and chief executive of Atavis Jet, a private plane charter company, also said he preferred to fly in the Northeast. “The shuttle is more efficient for my needs,” he said.

Mr. Schwartz lives in New York and frequently flies Delta to Washington for business or to visit family. “I can get door to door from Manhattan to downtown D.C. in two hours,” he said, adding that that’s faster than the train.

“The fact that Amtrak calls Acela a ‘high-speed’ train is silly to me,” Mr. Schwartz said. “It’s slow, it’s lumbering, you’re stopping every 20 minutes or so in little towns that don’t warrant high-speed service.”

Airlines and railroads have gone toe to toe to win over customers in the Northeast corridor for decades, boasting of their own unique efficiencies. Amtrak stresses how train stations are more centrally located than airports.

But many shuttle fans prefer the speed of flying over taking the train.

Mr. Schwartz said one ad he saw more than a decade ago really drove the point home.

“I remember maybe 10 to 15 years ago when Amtrak was really trying to push Acela,” he recalled, “there was an advertising war on the tops of taxicabs, and Delta had one that said: ‘Planes are faster than trains. Period.’ That stuck with me.”